Docs/IT Anomaly Insights Post Deployment Instructions.md, before:

[IT Anomaly Insights Preconfigured Solution](https://gallery.cortanaintelligence.com/solutiontemplate/c0cc7d49409b4be99fa99dcf8ccba98b)
============================================
[Cortana Intelligence Quick Start](https://start.cortanaintelligence.com) (CIQS) Deployment
----------------------------------
Overview
--------
The IT Anomaly Insights Preconfigured Solution will deploy an end to end solution into your subscription. The goal of this document is to explain the reference architecture and different components provisioned in your subscription as part of the deployment. The document also talks about how to start sending sample data or real data to be able to see insights. Instructions on how to build the Power BI dashboard for this solution are provided at the end.

Architecture
------------
![IT Anomaly Insights Pipeline Architecture](https://az712634.vo.msecnd.net/solutiontemplates/IT_Operations_Insights_Preconfigured_Solution/Anomaly_detection_Topology1.png)
When the pipeline is deployed, various Azure services within Cortana Analytics Suite are activated (i.e. Event Hub, Stream Analytics, Storage, HDInsight, Data Factory, Machine Learning, etc.). The architecture diagram above shows, at a high level, how the IT Anomaly Insights Preconfigured Solution pipeline is constructed from end-to-end.

Data Source and Ingestion
-------------------------
####Azure Event Hub
The [Azure Event Hub](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/event-hubs/) service is the recipient of the input data provided by the data source. The data source can be the data generator provided or any service that can send data to Azure Event Hub in the required format. Read more about it in the following section.

Data Preparation and Analysis
-----------------------------
####Azure Stream Analytics
The [Azure Stream Analytics](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/stream-analytics/) service is used to provide near real-time analytics on the input stream from the Azure Event Hub service and archiving all raw incoming events to the [Azure Storage](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/storage/) service for later processing by the [Azure Data Factory](https://azure.microsoft.com/documentation/services/data-factory/) service.

####Azure Data Factory
The [Azure Data Factory](https://azure.microsoft.com/documentation/services/data-factory/) service orchestrates the movement and processing of data. The data factory is made up of [pipelines](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/articles/data-factorydata-factory-create-pipelines/) and activities for preparing, analyzing and publishing results. It uses custom activities to read raw data from the input storage tables, prepare individual time series datasets that will be sent to Azure Machine Learning - Anomaly Detection API for scoring and then publishes the results as follows.

Data Publishing
---------------
####Azure SQL Database Service
The [Azure SQL Database](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/sql-database/) service is used to store (managed by Azure Data Factory) the anomaly detection scores received by the Azure Machine Learning service that will be consumed in the [Power BI](https://powerbi.microsoft.com/) dashboard.

Data Consumption
----------------
####Power BI
The [Power BI](https://powerbi.microsoft.com/) service is used to show a dashboard that contains aggregations provided by the [Azure Stream Analytics](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/stream-analytics/) service as well as anomaly detection score results stored in [Azure SQL Database](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/sql-database/) that were produced using the [Azure Machine Learning](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/machine-learning/) service. For Instructions on how to use the Power BI dashboard for this solution, refer to the section below.

Post Deployment Steps
---------------------
Below are the steps to get started with the deployed solution.
> - **Step 1:** Once the solution is deployed successfully; you can start sending data into it.  The data source can be a simulated data source like sample data generator provided or you can bring your own data as described below. 
> - **Step 2:** Monitor if data is flowing into your pipeline.
> - **Step 3:** Lastly, visualize the results using Power BI dashboard.

####Synthetic Data Source
You can use Data Generator (available in the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/Azure/itanomalysinsights-cortana-intelligence-preconfigured-solution) for this solution) as the data source to provide synthetic data to the deployed pipeline. The data generator is a desktop application that you can download and run locally after successful deployment. You will find the instructions to download and install this application from Data Generator Instructions (also available in GitHub). This application feeds the [Azure Event Hub](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/articles/cortana-analytics-technical-guide-demand-forecast/?tduid=%28ff7611aab34207ef35998cad0ae7b15b%29%28256380%29%282459594%29%28je6NUbpObpQ-tDK.bHRFEXOQuN7wy1uyeg%29%28%29) service with data points, or events, that will be used in the rest of the pipeline flow.
The event generation application will populate the Azure Event Hub only while it's executing on your computer.

####How to bring your own data 
This section describes how to bring your own data to Azure. As long as the events being sent to the Azure Event Hub follow the required schema, encoding and format, there are no additional changes to be made to the pipeline components.
Encoding: UTF-8
Formatting: JSON
Schema:
```
{
	"Host": "Hostname (required)",
	"Metric": "Counter/metric name (required)",
	"Value": "Numeric value (required)",
	"Application": "Originating application of the event (optional)",
	"Brand": "Originating brand name of the event (optional)"
}
```

The Azure Event Hub service is very generic, such that data can be posted to the hub in either CSV or JSON format. No special processing occurs in the Azure Event Hub, but it is important you understand the data that is fed into it.
This document does not describe how to ingest your data, but one can easily send events or data to an Azure Event Hub, using the [Event Hub API](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/articles/event-hubsevent-hubs-programming-guide/).

Monitor Progress
----------------
Once the data generator/ data source starts sending events, the pipeline begins to get hydrated and the different components of your solution start kicking into action following the commands issued by the Data Factory. There are multiple ways you can monitor the pipeline.
> 1) **Check the input data populated in Azure Table Storage and Azure SQL Database.**
The Stream Analytics job writes the raw incoming data to table storage and SQL database. If you click on Resource Group name in the CIQS portal, it will take you to your deployed solution in the [Azure management portal](https://portal.azure.com/). Once there, click on **Tables**. In the next panel, check if you see the two tables **"asaEgressPartitions"** and **“asaEgress”**. You can also check the if data is being populated in the tables using tools like [Azure Storage Explorer](http://storageexplorer.com/). If you see these tables and data, it indicates that the raw data is successfully being generated on your computer and stored in table storage. 
You can also check the data being populated in SQL database by going to your Resource Group, and locating your database (ex: demo123456db ) and connecting to it using the SQL server username and password provided in the CIQS portal. Once connected, you can check **“AdditionalInfo”** table in the database and make sure it has records being populated by the Stream Analytics Job (e.g. “select count(*) from AdditionalInfo”). 
>
> 2) **Check the results output data from Azure SQL Database.**
The last step of the pipeline is to write data (e.g. anomalies detected using Machine Learning API) into SQL Database table named **“AdScoreResults”**. You might have to wait for a minimum of 15 minutes for the output data to appear in table. Here, you can query for the number of rows (e.g. "select count(*) from AdScoreResults"). As your database grows, the number of rows in the table should increase.
>
> 3) **Check Azure Data Factory dashboard.**
The Azure Data Factory service orchestrates the movement and processing of data. You can access your data factory from the Azure management portal resource group (e.x. demo12345adf) . If you see errors under your datasets, you can ignore those as they are due to data factory being deployed before the data generator was started. Those errors do not prevent your data factory from functioning. Read more about monitoring and managing the ADF pipeline [here](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/articles/data-factory-monitor-manage-pipelines/).

Power BI Dashboard
------------------
####Overview
This section describes how to set up Power BI dashboard to visualize the output results of the pipeline. Power BI connects to an Azure SQL database as its data source, where the Machine Learning score results are stored. Below are the steps to setup the Power BI dashboard.
> 1) Get the database server name, database name, user name and password from the CIQS portal.
> 
> 2) Update the data source of the Power BI file.
> - Make sure you have installed the latest version of [Power BI desktop](https://powerbi.microsoft.com/desktop).
> - Download the Power BI desktop file for the solution from [here](https://github.com/Azure/itanomalyinsights-cortana-intelligence-preconfigured-solution/blob/master/Power-BI-Templates/IT%20Anomaly%20Insights%20Solution%20Dashboard.pbix). The initial visualizations are based on dummy data. **Note:** If you see an error massage, please make sure you have installed the latest version of Power BI Desktop.
Once you open it, on the top of the file, click **‘Edit Queries’**. In the pop out window, double click **‘Source’** on the right panel.
> - In the pop out window, replace **"Server"** and **"Database"** with your own server and database names, and then click **"OK"**. For server name, make sure you specify the port 1433 (YourSolutionName.database.windows.net, 1433). Ignore the warning messages that appear on the screen.
> - In the next pop out window, you'll see two options on the left pane (Windows and Database). Click **"Database"**, fill in your **"Username"** and **"Password"** (this is the username and password you entered when you first deployed the solution and created an Azure SQL database). In Select which level to apply these settings to, check database level option. Then click **"Connect"**.
> - Once you are guided back to the previous page, close the window. A message will pop out - click **Apply**. Lastly, click the **Save** button to save the changes. Your Power BI file has now established connection to the server. If your visualizations are empty, make sure you clear the selections on the visualizations to visualize all the data by clicking the eraser icon on the upper right corner of the legends. Use the refresh button to reflect new data on the visualizations. Initially, you will only see the seed data on your visualizations as the data factory is scheduled to refresh every 3 hours. After 3 hours, you will see new scores reflected in your visualizations when you refresh the data.
> 
> 3) (Optional) Publish the dashboard to [Power BI online](http://www.powerbi.com/). Note that this step needs a Power BI account (or Office 365 account).
> - Click **"Publish"** and few seconds later a window appears displaying "Publishing to Power BI Success!" with a green check mark. To find detailed instructions, see [Publish from Power BI Desktop](https://support.powerbi.com/knowledgebase/articles/461278-publish-from-power-bi-desktop).
> - To create a new dashboard: click the + sign next to the **Dashboards** section on the left pane. Enter the name "Demand Forecasting Demo" for this new dashboard.
> 
> 4) (Optional) Schedule refresh of the data source.
> - To schedule refresh of the data, hover your mouse over the dataset, click "..." and then choose **Schedule Refresh**. **Note:** If you see a warning massage, click **Edit Credentials** and make sure your database credentials are the same as those described in step 1.
> - Expand the **Schedule Refresh** section. Turn on "keep your data up-to-date". - Schedule the refresh based on your needs. To find more information, see [Data refresh in Power BI](https://powerbi.microsoft.com/documentation/powerbi-refresh-data/).

Pipeline Health Monitoring
--------------------------

This section outlines the steps to monitor if data flowing into the pipeline is successfully scored. Anomaly Detection scoring activity runs inside Azure Data Factory. It fetches input data from Azure Table Storage and passes that data to Machine Learning - Anomaly Detection API for scoring. Scoring results are then persisted in Azure SQL database. Metrics are tracked for every service call. Collected telemetry data is sent to Application Insights (AI) which allows customers to set up monitoring dashboards and alarms.

Steps to set up a sample health dashboard are outlined below.
> 1. The name of Application Insights account will be displayed on the deployment summary page in CIQS. Make a note of it.
>
> 2. Navigate to portal.azure.com and search for the AI account noted above.
>
> 3. Once in the Application Insights blade, click on the "Metric Explorer" button.
>
> 4. You should see two blank charts under "Metric Explorer" blade. Click on the “Edit” link in the top right of a blank chart to configure it. 
>
> 5. Pipeline health metrics will be listed under "Custom" section.
>
> 6. Below is a sample dashboard that gives users a high-level overview of scoring activity health. 
> The top chart shows the number of successful and failed Azure Data Factory activity runs. A failed activity run generally indicates that no data has been processed. The next chart below shows the number of successfully scored timeseries. An occasional timeseries evaluation failure is expected, the pipeline is built in such a way that any missing results will be recorded during the next activity run. The next chart shows the number of result rows written to the Azure SQL table. If all datapoints in this chart were zero, it would be an indication that new data stopped flowing into the pipeline. The bottom chart shows the number of anomalies that were successfully published to a Service Bus Topic. Note that non-zero values are expected only when anomalies are detected.

Integrating IT Anomaly Insights Results with On-premise Systems
---------------------------------------------------------------

#### Overview
IT Anomaly Insights PCS will publish Anomaly Detection results to Azure Service Bus Topic. This section covers steps to configure which anomalies will be published to the Service Bus Topic, as well as how to integrate with Service Bus Topics.

#### Configuring Service Bus Topic Result Publishing
Follow the instructions below to learn how to configure the types of anomalies (i.e. spikes, bi-level changes or slow trends) that will be published to Service Bus Topics.

> 1. In Azure Portal navigate to the Resource Group bearing the name of your CIQS project. Find the Data Factory resource.
>
> 2. Click the “Author and deploy” button. Expand “Pipelines” section and select “Anomaly-Detection-Pipeline”.
>
> 3. Azure Data Factory pipeline definition will appear on the right-most blade. 
> 
> 4. Look for “anomalyQuery” parameter under “PublishAnomalies” activity. This query will be run against Azure SQL database where Anomaly Detection results are stored. One Service Bus Topic message will be published for each row returned by the query.
> The default query (`SELECT * FROM [dbo].[AdScoreResults] WHERE [ScoredTimeseriesEndTimestamp] > @startDateTime AND [ScoredTimeseriesEndTimestamp] <= @endDateTime AND [ZSpike] = 1`) will only publish messages for level spikes. By modifying the query, the user can fine-tune which anomalies (spikes, level changes, trend, etc.) will be published to Service Bus.
>
> 5. Upon modifying the query, make sure to click the “Deploy” button to save the changes.

#### Receiving Service Bus Topics Messages

Three pieces of information are needed to start consuming Service Bus Topics messages: topic name, subscription name and Service Bus connection string. All three are provided under “Deployment summary” in CIQS.

There is a wealth of documentation and code samples that show how to receive Service Bus messages from a topic subscription. The following Microsoft documentation [article](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/articles/service-bus-dotnet-how-to-use-topics-subscriptions/) gives a quick overview and provides sample code which will help users integrate their services with Service Bus. 

Service Bus Topics are also supported in Azure WebJobs (see [documentation](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/articles/websites-dotnet-webjobs-sdk-service-bus/)).

Customers who do not have existing infrastructure are encouraged to try [Azure Functions](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/articles/functions-reference/). Azure Functions have built-in Service Bus [support](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/articles/functions-bindings-service-bus/) and allow users to start receiving and processing messages without the cost of infrastructure setup and maintenance.

Commit message:

Adding Pipeline Health Monitoring pictures

Docs/IT Anomaly Insights Post Deployment Instructions.md, after:

[IT Anomaly Insights Preconfigured Solution](https://gallery.cortanaintelligence.com/solutiontemplate/c0cc7d49409b4be99fa99dcf8ccba98b)
============================================
[Cortana Intelligence Quick Start](https://start.cortanaintelligence.com) (CIQS) Deployment
----------------------------------
Overview
--------
The IT Anomaly Insights Preconfigured Solution will deploy an end to end solution into your subscription. The goal of this document is to explain the reference architecture and different components provisioned in your subscription as part of the deployment. The document also talks about how to start sending sample data or real data to be able to see insights. Instructions on how to build the Power BI dashboard for this solution are provided at the end.

Architecture
------------
![IT Anomaly Insights Pipeline Architecture](https://az712634.vo.msecnd.net/solutiontemplates/IT_Operations_Insights_Preconfigured_Solution/Anomaly_detection_Topology1.png)
When the pipeline is deployed, various Azure services within Cortana Analytics Suite are activated (i.e. Event Hub, Stream Analytics, Storage, HDInsight, Data Factory, Machine Learning, etc.). The architecture diagram above shows, at a high level, how the IT Anomaly Insights Preconfigured Solution pipeline is constructed from end-to-end.

Data Source and Ingestion
-------------------------
####Azure Event Hub
The [Azure Event Hub](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/event-hubs/) service is the recipient of the input data provided by the data source. The data source can be the data generator provided or any service that can send data to Azure Event Hub in the required format. Read more about it in the following section.

Data Preparation and Analysis
-----------------------------
####Azure Stream Analytics
The [Azure Stream Analytics](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/stream-analytics/) service is used to provide near real-time analytics on the input stream from the Azure Event Hub service and archiving all raw incoming events to the [Azure Storage](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/storage/) service for later processing by the [Azure Data Factory](https://azure.microsoft.com/documentation/services/data-factory/) service.

####Azure Data Factory
The [Azure Data Factory](https://azure.microsoft.com/documentation/services/data-factory/) service orchestrates the movement and processing of data. The data factory is made up of [pipelines](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/articles/data-factorydata-factory-create-pipelines/) and activities for preparing, analyzing and publishing results. It uses custom activities to read raw data from the input storage tables, prepare individual time series datasets that will be sent to Azure Machine Learning - Anomaly Detection API for scoring and then publishes the results as follows.

Data Publishing
---------------
####Azure SQL Database Service
The [Azure SQL Database](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/sql-database/) service is used to store (managed by Azure Data Factory) the anomaly detection scores received by the Azure Machine Learning service that will be consumed in the [Power BI](https://powerbi.microsoft.com/) dashboard.

Data Consumption
----------------
####Power BI
The [Power BI](https://powerbi.microsoft.com/) service is used to show a dashboard that contains aggregations provided by the [Azure Stream Analytics](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/stream-analytics/) service as well as anomaly detection score results stored in [Azure SQL Database](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/sql-database/) that were produced using the [Azure Machine Learning](https://azure.microsoft.com/services/machine-learning/) service. For Instructions on how to use the Power BI dashboard for this solution, refer to the section below.

Post Deployment Steps
---------------------
Below are the steps to get started with the deployed solution.
> - **Step 1:** Once the solution is deployed successfully; you can start sending data into it.  The data source can be a simulated data source like sample data generator provided or you can bring your own data as described below. 
> - **Step 2:** Monitor if data is flowing into your pipeline.
> - **Step 3:** Lastly, visualize the results using Power BI dashboard.

####Synthetic Data Source
You can use Data Generator (available in the [GitHub repository](https://github.com/Azure/itanomalysinsights-cortana-intelligence-preconfigured-solution) for this solution) as the data source to provide synthetic data to the deployed pipeline. The data generator is a desktop application that you can download and run locally after successful deployment. You will find the instructions to download and install this application from Data Generator Instructions (also available in GitHub). This application feeds the [Azure Event Hub](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/articles/cortana-analytics-technical-guide-demand-forecast/?tduid=%28ff7611aab34207ef35998cad0ae7b15b%29%28256380%29%282459594%29%28je6NUbpObpQ-tDK.bHRFEXOQuN7wy1uyeg%29%28%29) service with data points, or events, that will be used in the rest of the pipeline flow.
The event generation application will populate the Azure Event Hub only while it's executing on your computer.

####How to bring your own data 
This section describes how to bring your own data to Azure. As long as the events being sent to the Azure Event Hub follow the required schema, encoding and format, there are no additional changes to be made to the pipeline components.
Encoding: UTF-8
Formatting: JSON
Schema:
```
{
	"Host": "Hostname (required)",
	"Metric": "Counter/metric name (required)",
	"Value": "Numeric value (required)",
	"Application": "Originating application of the event (optional)",
	"Brand": "Originating brand name of the event (optional)"
}
```

The Azure Event Hub service is very generic, such that data can be posted to the hub in either CSV or JSON format. No special processing occurs in the Azure Event Hub, but it is important you understand the data that is fed into it.
This document does not describe how to ingest your data, but one can easily send events or data to an Azure Event Hub, using the [Event Hub API](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/articles/event-hubsevent-hubs-programming-guide/).

Monitor Progress
----------------
Once the data generator/ data source starts sending events, the pipeline begins to get hydrated and the different components of your solution start kicking into action following the commands issued by the Data Factory. There are multiple ways you can monitor the pipeline.
> 1) **Check the input data populated in Azure Table Storage and Azure SQL Database.**
The Stream Analytics job writes the raw incoming data to table storage and SQL database. If you click on Resource Group name in the CIQS portal, it will take you to your deployed solution in the [Azure management portal](https://portal.azure.com/). Once there, click on **Tables**. In the next panel, check if you see the two tables **"asaEgressPartitions"** and **“asaEgress”**. You can also check the if data is being populated in the tables using tools like [Azure Storage Explorer](http://storageexplorer.com/). If you see these tables and data, it indicates that the raw data is successfully being generated on your computer and stored in table storage. 
You can also check the data being populated in SQL database by going to your Resource Group, and locating your database (ex: demo123456db ) and connecting to it using the SQL server username and password provided in the CIQS portal. Once connected, you can check **“AdditionalInfo”** table in the database and make sure it has records being populated by the Stream Analytics Job (e.g. “select count(*) from AdditionalInfo”). 
>
> 2) **Check the results output data from Azure SQL Database.**
The last step of the pipeline is to write data (e.g. anomalies detected using Machine Learning API) into SQL Database table named **“AdScoreResults”**. You might have to wait for a minimum of 15 minutes for the output data to appear in table. Here, you can query for the number of rows (e.g. "select count(*) from AdScoreResults"). As your database grows, the number of rows in the table should increase.
>
> 3) **Check Azure Data Factory dashboard.**
The Azure Data Factory service orchestrates the movement and processing of data. You can access your data factory from the Azure management portal resource group (e.x. demo12345adf) . If you see errors under your datasets, you can ignore those as they are due to data factory being deployed before the data generator was started. Those errors do not prevent your data factory from functioning. Read more about monitoring and managing the ADF pipeline [here](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/articles/data-factory-monitor-manage-pipelines/).

Power BI Dashboard
------------------
####Overview
This section describes how to set up Power BI dashboard to visualize the output results of the pipeline. Power BI connects to an Azure SQL database as its data source, where the Machine Learning score results are stored. Below are the steps to setup the Power BI dashboard.
> 1) Get the database server name, database name, user name and password from the CIQS portal.
> 
> 2) Update the data source of the Power BI file.
> - Make sure you have installed the latest version of [Power BI desktop](https://powerbi.microsoft.com/desktop).
> - Download the Power BI desktop file for the solution from [here](https://github.com/Azure/itanomalyinsights-cortana-intelligence-preconfigured-solution/blob/master/Power-BI-Templates/IT%20Anomaly%20Insights%20Solution%20Dashboard.pbix). The initial visualizations are based on dummy data. **Note:** If you see an error massage, please make sure you have installed the latest version of Power BI Desktop.
Once you open it, on the top of the file, click **‘Edit Queries’**. In the pop out window, double click **‘Source’** on the right panel.
> - In the pop out window, replace **"Server"** and **"Database"** with your own server and database names, and then click **"OK"**. For server name, make sure you specify the port 1433 (YourSolutionName.database.windows.net, 1433). Ignore the warning messages that appear on the screen.
> - In the next pop out window, you'll see two options on the left pane (Windows and Database). Click **"Database"**, fill in your **"Username"** and **"Password"** (this is the username and password you entered when you first deployed the solution and created an Azure SQL database). In Select which level to apply these settings to, check database level option. Then click **"Connect"**.
> - Once you are guided back to the previous page, close the window. A message will pop out - click **Apply**. Lastly, click the **Save** button to save the changes. Your Power BI file has now established connection to the server. If your visualizations are empty, make sure you clear the selections on the visualizations to visualize all the data by clicking the eraser icon on the upper right corner of the legends. Use the refresh button to reflect new data on the visualizations. Initially, you will only see the seed data on your visualizations as the data factory is scheduled to refresh every 3 hours. After 3 hours, you will see new scores reflected in your visualizations when you refresh the data.
> 
> 3) (Optional) Publish the dashboard to [Power BI online](http://www.powerbi.com/). Note that this step needs a Power BI account (or Office 365 account).
> - Click **"Publish"** and few seconds later a window appears displaying "Publishing to Power BI Success!" with a green check mark. To find detailed instructions, see [Publish from Power BI Desktop](https://support.powerbi.com/knowledgebase/articles/461278-publish-from-power-bi-desktop).
> - To create a new dashboard: click the + sign next to the **Dashboards** section on the left pane. Enter the name "Demand Forecasting Demo" for this new dashboard.
> 
> 4) (Optional) Schedule refresh of the data source.
> - To schedule refresh of the data, hover your mouse over the dataset, click "..." and then choose **Schedule Refresh**. **Note:** If you see a warning massage, click **Edit Credentials** and make sure your database credentials are the same as those described in step 1.
> - Expand the **Schedule Refresh** section. Turn on "keep your data up-to-date". - Schedule the refresh based on your needs. To find more information, see [Data refresh in Power BI](https://powerbi.microsoft.com/documentation/powerbi-refresh-data/).

Pipeline Health Monitoring
--------------------------

This section outlines the steps to monitor if data flowing into the pipeline is successfully scored. Anomaly Detection scoring activity runs inside Azure Data Factory. It fetches input data from Azure Table Storage and passes that data to Machine Learning - Anomaly Detection API for scoring. Scoring results are then persisted in Azure SQL database. Metrics are tracked for every service call. Collected telemetry data is sent to Application Insights (AI) which allows customers to set up monitoring dashboards and alarms.

Steps to set up a sample health dashboard are outlined below.
> 1. The name of Application Insights account will be displayed on the deployment summary page in CIQS. Make a note of it.
>
> 2. Navigate to portal.azure.com and search for the AI account noted above.
>
> 3. Once in the Application Insights blade, click on the "Metric Explorer" button.
>    
>    ![Application Insights Metrics Explorer button] (https://github.com/Azure/itanomalyinsights-cortana-intelligence-preconfigured-solution/blob/master/Docs/figures/appInsights_bar.png)
> 
> 4. You should see two blank charts under "Metric Explorer" blade. Click on the “Edit” link in the top right of a blank chart to configure it. 
>    
>    ![Metrics Explorer Blade] (https://github.com/Azure/itanomalyinsights-cortana-intelligence-preconfigured-solution/blob/master/Docs/figures/appInsights_metricsExplorer.png)
>
> 5. Pipeline health metrics will be listed under "Custom" section.
>    
>    ![Pipeline health metrics] (https://github.com/Azure/itanomalyinsights-cortana-intelligence-preconfigured-solution/blob/master/Docs/figures/appInsights_CustomMetrics.png)
>
> 6. Below is a sample dashboard that gives users a high-level overview of scoring activity health. 
>    
>    ![Pipeline health metrics] (https://github.com/Azure/itanomalyinsights-cortana-intelligence-preconfigured-solution/blob/master/Docs/figures/appInsights_sampleDashboard.png)
>    
>    The top chart shows the number of successful and failed Azure Data Factory activity runs. A failed activity run generally indicates that no data has been processed. The next chart below shows the number of successfully scored timeseries. An occasional timeseries evaluation failure is expected, the pipeline is built in such a way that any missing results will be recorded during the next activity run. The next chart shows the number of result rows written to the Azure SQL table. If all datapoints in this chart were zero, it would be an indication that new data stopped flowing into the pipeline. The bottom chart shows the number of anomalies that were successfully published to a Service Bus Topic. Note that non-zero values are expected only when anomalies are detected.

Integrating IT Anomaly Insights Results with On-premise Systems
---------------------------------------------------------------

#### Overview
IT Anomaly Insights PCS will publish Anomaly Detection results to Azure Service Bus Topic. This section covers steps to configure which anomalies will be published to the Service Bus Topic, as well as how to integrate with Service Bus Topics.

#### Configuring Service Bus Topic Result Publishing
Follow the instructions below to learn how to configure the types of anomalies (i.e. spikes, bi-level changes or slow trends) that will be published to Service Bus Topics.

> 1. In Azure Portal navigate to the Resource Group bearing the name of your CIQS project. Find the Data Factory resource.
>
> 2. Click the “Author and deploy” button. Expand “Pipelines” section and select “Anomaly-Detection-Pipeline”.
>
> 3. Azure Data Factory pipeline definition will appear on the right-most blade. 
> 
> 4. Look for “anomalyQuery” parameter under “PublishAnomalies” activity. This query will be run against Azure SQL database where Anomaly Detection results are stored. One Service Bus Topic message will be published for each row returned by the query.
> The default query (`SELECT * FROM [dbo].[AdScoreResults] WHERE [ScoredTimeseriesEndTimestamp] > @startDateTime AND [ScoredTimeseriesEndTimestamp] <= @endDateTime AND [ZSpike] = 1`) will only publish messages for level spikes. By modifying the query, the user can fine-tune which anomalies (spikes, level changes, trend, etc.) will be published to Service Bus.
>
> 5. Upon modifying the query, make sure to click the “Deploy” button to save the changes.

#### Receiving Service Bus Topics Messages

Three pieces of information are needed to start consuming Service Bus Topics messages: topic name, subscription name and Service Bus connection string. All three are provided under “Deployment summary” in CIQS.

There is a wealth of documentation and code samples that show how to receive Service Bus messages from a topic subscription. The following Microsoft documentation [article](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/articles/service-bus-dotnet-how-to-use-topics-subscriptions/) gives a quick overview and provides sample code which will help users integrate their services with Service Bus. 

Service Bus Topics are also supported in Azure WebJobs (see [documentation](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/articles/websites-dotnet-webjobs-sdk-service-bus/)).

Customers who do not have existing infrastructure are encouraged to try [Azure Functions](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/articles/functions-reference/). Azure Functions have built-in Service Bus [support](https://azure.microsoft.com/en-us/documentation/articles/functions-bindings-service-bus/) and allow users to start receiving and processing messages without the cost of infrastructure setup and maintenance.
